End of Course reflection- Kyle De Laurell

I think that the most important thing I learned about computer programming is testing your program to ensure it does what you think it is supposed to. There were many times that I would write a program and it didn't function exactly how I wanted it to. Especially in the final project, I found a lot of time that there were holes in my logic where I would expect one output and I would get another and it was because a loop or an if statement did not fully encompass what I though it did. It is very important to always thoroughly test your program on every facet to ensure you are getting the correct output. I also found that you definitely need to start early so that you don't end up with hundreds of errors and no idea where to start because there are too many things wrong. The early testing was a big thing for me as it ended up costing me on a couple of HW assignments. The worst part was that I was very close and if I had started testing earlier I have no doubt that I would have been able to fix the problems.

I still find dynamic memory allocation a little confusing, but I plan on going back and rereading those sections to get a better understand of the topic. The idea of the stack and heap are very new to me and will take time for me to fully wrap my head around. I hope to find a little project that I can use to help iron out any holes I have in understanding those concepts.

I learned that online courses work very well for me and that when I spend the time that I have no issues learning the material. I was worried about my ability to learn from distance learning, but that so far has proved to not be my biggest issue. I have learned that life happens and I have to be very careful how I spend my time so that I ensure that I always have enough to to do my schoolwork. I found myself on multiple occasions scrambling at the last second to finish hw assignments and learn material and it has taught me a lot about time management. I think that is is a very good lesson for me to learn and I hope to get better as I take more classes in the future.

I think that once again time management and dedicating ample time where I have no distractions at home to do my work is the biggest thing I have learned that I can carry over to future courses. I feel like I had a lot of learning experiences from this first semester. I think that trying to get ahead of my schoolwork is the biggest thing that I want to carry over. I also hope to make sure everyday I always do a little schoolwork so that I do not have to do it all at once I am am constantly exercising new skills everyday.

This course has helped show me how detail oriented and complex the computer programming career can be. It takes a lot of brain power and it excites me to think of all the things I will be able to do once I have expanded my skill set. This course has opened my eyes to how helpful computer programming can be in so many different areas. I work for the Air Force and my brain is constantly going about programs that I could write that would make our day to day life so much easier and more efficient. It excites me to think of what I could do once I have a deeper understanding of programming and all that it has to offer.